---
title: "[Vestr.io] Binance’s Undesired Monopoly Over Its BNB Coin"
date: "2023-01-01"
description: " "
---
<i>This article was originally published in Vestr.io's Newsletter. Subscribe <a href="https://www.vestr.io/" target="_blank">here</a></i>
 
With BNB coin being the 5th largest cryptocurrency in market capitalization ($38.8 Billion), it may come as a surprise that it’s actually one of the harder tokens to acquire for individual investors. This is because major US cryptocurrency exchanges refuse to list it in their service, with the only exception being Binance.US, an exchange created by Binance (the parent company) itself. And in the 4 states where it’s outlawed (Texas, New York, Hawaii and Vermont), the process of acquiring BNB gets more complex. A user from a crypto forum explained an arduous workaround method: Buying Bitcoin on Coinbase, moving to Kucoin, converting it to BNB, transferring it to Trust Wallet, then swapping it for the BNB Smart Chain network. With gas fees incurred at every transaction process, this is not only inconvenient but also very costly.

Many seek to acquire BNB in order to use DeFi projects built around the token, on the Binance Smart Chain (BSC). PancakeSwap is a great example; It’s a decentralized exchange to trade BEP-20 tokens. Last year, it was briefly the second largest DEX after Uniswap, with over $400 million in daily trading volumes. Many BSC projects are receiving a lot more attention lately for its significantly less cost (gas fees) in comparison to Ethereum blockchain. With BNB often becoming the native token for these platforms, demand for BNB has grown which makes it counterintuitive as to why it is so isolated from the rest of crypto.

So why can’t it be found on major US exchanges? Analysts say that it is due to a concern of BNB possibly being categorized as a security by US regulators. If you recall, FTX had a version of their own token called FTT which initially brought in a large capital from investors yet eventually led to the exchange’s downfall. When Binance CEO Changpeng “CZ” Zhao sold off his company’s FTT holdings, it crashed the price which raised concerns amongst investors. In addition, FTT tokens were not widely distributed to individuals but were instead held by FTX’s hedge fund, Alameda Research. The tokens were therefore easily manipulative in nature, and with no DeFi ecosystem built around it, holding them meant very little outside the exchange itself. Following the collapse, the US Securities and Exchange Commission labeled FTT a security. This is the exact concern Binance has over BNB.

For exchanges like Coinbase and Gemini, they do not wish to take the risk of listing a digital asset that could later be deemed a security, as they would rather avoid the complex security laws and the hassle with regulators. Furthermore, they see BNB as a centralized token created by their rival company, so it is not in their interest to help out Binance by listing it in their service and making the token easily distributable. For the same reasons, FTT had also never been listed by other exchanges.

While BNB and FTT share similarities (which concerns many investors), there is also a key difference between the two: Binance’s launch of parallel blockchain BSC has led to a successful ecosystem around BNB. Considered one of the most efficient blockchains, it can handle around 300 transactions per second which outperforms Ethereum average speed of 18 transactions per second. This technological improvement attracted many developers, and naturally BSC birthed a thriving crypto ecosystem around BNB, something FTT never had. With over 3000 dApps running on BSC, I predict it’s going to be much more difficult to regulate BNB, given that decentralized products are designed to resist control by a single entity. While the process of acquiring BNB may be annoying, I, as of today, have belief in the BNB ecosystem.