---
title: "[Vestr] How Altcoins Are Manipulated By Trading Firms"
date: "2023-02-12"
description: " "
---

<i>This article was originally published in Vestr.io's Newsletter. Subscribe <a href="https://www.vestr.io/" target="_blank">here</a></i>

<b>SEC on Terraform</b>: Last week, the SEC charged Do Kwon and his company Terraform Labs for their fraudulent business practices that resulted in one of the biggest catastrophes in the crypto space: Depegging of Terra stablecoin. According to the SEC, Do Kwon “perpetuated a fraudulent scheme that led to the loss of at least $40 billion of market value.” Following the filed complaint, more details are coming to light, including details of a mysterious, undisclosed third-party firm that were involved in the scheme.

<b>Unfair Advantage</b>: It was revealed that Jump Trading was the unnamed firm that worked with Terraform to help restore Terra’s peg. When Terra started to slip away and tanked as low as $0.9, Jump Trading entered a contract with Terraform that allowed them to purchase large amounts of Terra (and Luna) at a heavily discounted price, with an agreement of promising returns. When Terra’s reserve coin Luna traded at around $90 per coin in the market, the firm bought in at merely 40 cents per coin, a whopping 99% discount. Terraform desperately needed a whale company to help boost the buy orders in order to restore and maintain the $1 peg. In the end, Jump Trading ended up profiting $1.28 billion from this agreement.

<b>Fraudulent From The Start</b>: The most notable detail about this is that this “under-the-table” agreement between the two firms began as early as November 2019. This is more than 2 years prior to the May 2022 collapse of Terra. Clearly, Terra had been manipulative from the very beginning if it had relied on crypto giants to fix its price whenever necessary. The system clearly didn’t rely on algorithms only, to maintain the asset stable as they had promoted to investors. Surprisingly of all, these investigations were not led by a government agency in authority, but instead by an individual Terra researcher on Twitter who goes by the handle, FatManTerra. In May 2022, he claimed that several whistleblowers had informed him of the Terra bailout as well as the discounted Luna deal, after which he was able to identify the trading firm.

<b>Trading-Firms on Crypto</b>: Jump Trading currently does not face any legal matters. They were merely acknowledged by the SEC, yet never charged. However, the trading firm now has numerous records of allegations for their involvement with price movements of cryptocurrencies. Just a few weeks ago, Jump Trading initiated the transfer of LDO (Lido DAO) tokens to Binance that resulted in a 10% drop, followed by another transfer that led to a decline of an additional 5% (These transactions are publically available for view in the blockchain). Analysts speculated two possible reasons for such action: An offloading (“and cashing out”) before the anticipated decline, or a move to strategically crash LDO to then accumulate at a lower price. Despite there being no legal regulations to prevent such an action, it is without a doubt that they are manipulative. Disregarding the question of morality, trading firms are known for taking advantage of markets; that is essentially how they profit, and thus what they aim to do. Market manipulations are illegal for securities, yet cryptocurrencies aren’t deemed securities. This explains why more trading firms are eyeing crypto as tradable assets and how the so-called “whales” are increasingly becoming more present. Due to sheer amount of volume and number of holders, Bitcoin is likely the only cryptocurrency that’s most resistant to “dump” (unless Satoshi himself got involved). With altcoins, however, the price of coins isn’t so much dependent on the actual potential of the Web3 project as the decisions made by the crypto giants.