---
title: "[Vestr.io] Fall of Silvergate Bank"
date: "2023-03-04"
description: " "
---
<i>This article was originally published in Vestr.io's Newsletter. Subscribe <a href="https://www.vestr.io/" target="_blank">here</a></i>

<b>Silvergate Falls</b>: On March 3, BTC lost more than $22 billion in its market capitalization after dropping more than 5% ($1200) in under an hour. This rapid price fall is heavily tied to Silvergate Bank’s delayed filing of a 10-K document, a report required by the SEC that reflects a firm’s financial performance. Silvergate announced that the company would need additional two weeks to complete paperwork for 2022’s financial reports, which raised many doubts over their profitability and future. The bank further noted that they anticipate losses in the coming months, writing that they are “currently in the process of reevaluating its businesses and strategies in light of the business and regulatory challenges it currently faces.” This news sent their stock ($SI) down 60%. On March 4, Silvergate suspended their crypto payment network, Silvergate Exchange Network (SEN), which allows instant transfers of funds in and out of exchanges without waiting days for transactions to settle. Silvergate is in its absolute worst position, at the brink of bankruptcy, and $SI has become the most shorted stock in the US.

<b>Numbers</b>: Silvergate Bank's annual revenue reports show 2022 as the first year that it had net losses, and the numbers are devastating: In comparison to $170 million of revenue in 2021 (which is a +92.54% change from the year prior), last year’s revenue plunged to -$610 million, a -456.64% change. They have lost more money in a single year than what they made from 2018 to 2022 (around $413.94 million) combined.

<b>Business Model and Reasons For Failure</b>: What went wrong with Silvergate, one of crypto’s favorite banks? The bank cites regulatory investigations and lawmaker inquiries as causes for recent struggles. The biggest reason, of course, is last year’s decline in the cryptocurrency market, which led many clients to pull back from crypto. Their business model is similar to traditional banks, except for their involvement in crypto through the SEN platform. With client funds, they invest in various securities, including high-grade mortgage securities (AA- rated or higher), municipal bonds, US treasuries, etc. They also offer loans, which consist of 9% of their total assets. SEN has been at the center of their business, allowing them to acquire more significant client funds. During Q4 after FTX’s collapse, Silvergate suffered massive withdrawals from panicking investors, leaving many of their accounts dangerously illiquid. In the last three months of 2022, two-thirds of the bank’s users withdrew over $8 billion of crypto deposits, forcing Silvergate to sell off $5.2 billion in assets (debt securities) to cover the withdrawn funds and stay liquid.

<b>What’s Next</b>: Following their decision to halt SEN service, many firms have now distanced themselves away from the bank. This includes Coinbase, Paxos, Galaxy Digital and more. At this point in time, there are two reasonable paths to how Silveragate will go down: It could either file for bankruptcy, or enter into receivership, where a new trustee will take over to assist creditors in recovering defaulted funds (defaulted by borrower) and avoid bankruptcy. If it does file for bankruptcy, it’s interesting how it will impact other traditional finance firms. Currently, shareholders of $SI include many investment firms: BlackRock (7.2%), SIG (7.5%), Jane Street (5.5%), Citadel (5.5%). At this moment, shorts are piling up against Silvergate and there isn’t much hope for their future. The story of Silvergate is a cautionary tale to many institutionalized finance services, as it shows that integrating crypto into a traditional financial model and maintaining successful business isn’t so simple. If a bad market alone is capable of shaking up a bank, a supposed bedrock of our economy, it should go to show how risky it is to be involved with the crypto industry.