---
title: "[Vestr] Can DJED Be The First Successful Algorithmic Stablecoin?"
date: "2023-02-06"
description: " "
---
<i>This article was originally published in Vestr.io's Newsletter. Subscribe <a href="https://www.vestr.io/" target="_blank">here</a></i>
 
 <b>A successful start, but not without flaws</b>: Cardano’s DJED has had the biggest attention in the crypto community lately, easily hitting $10 Million Total Value Locked (TVL) within 24 hours of its launch. It even impacted the price of Cardano (ADA), flooding in more than $600 Million 24-hour trading volume and leading to a surge in price by more than 6%. The appeal of DJED is its over-collateralization that keeps collateral to issued currency at a 6:1 ratio, which should supposedly secure assets in case of an unexpected depegging from $1 value (and avoid bank-run scenarios). At the moment, there is a circulating supply of DJED worth $1.8 billion that is backed by $12 billion worth of ADA. Despite a successful start, investors have cast certain doubts after a brief instance of depegging when the stablecoin fell below $0.975 from $1 just a few days after the launch.

<b>How it works</b>: DJED is an algorithmic stablecoin, meaning that there is no physical USD backing that exists in a physical reserve. Instead, it relies on the concept of Reserve Coins, which is a mechanism implemented to maintain the $1 pegging by providing incentives to token holders. SHEN is DJED’s reserve coin, and through trading SHEN, traders contribute to maintaining DJED’s peg. In the case of price fluctuations, users can sell off SHEN in exchange for DJED as an arbitrage trade, which in theory, keeps the peg in balance and returns the price to its original state. The idea behind this ecosystem is that SHEN holders take on the risk and absorb any price fluctuations that occur naturally in a market to keep another asset, DJED, stable. In other words, SHEN exists solely to serve DJED.

<b>Tokenomics</b>: COTI, the official issuer of DJED, implemented minting and burning mechanisms into the tokenomics. For example, minting any more DJED is prohibited if the reserve ratio falls under 400%, which reduces the risk of inflation. There are also three different fees generated in the DJED protocol: Minting fees, Burning fees, and Operational fees. Minting and burning fees of DJED and SHEN are converted to ADA and deposited into the reserve pool (increasing ratio). In contrast, operational fees are converted to $COTI (the native token of COTI) and allocated to the COTI treasury. This is a complex system involving four different tokens, and the movement of one token affects the rest. For example, if you felt strongly about the success of DJED stablecoin, it would make sense to feel very bullish about $COTI and ADA.

<b>Risks</b>: The biggest risk that the entire ecosystem takes on is in a scenario in which Cardano (ADA) itself fails and drastically crashes in price. To maintain the overcollateralized state, the liquidity pool would require astronomically large amounts of ADA tokens to keep the 6:1 ratio, given that each ADA would be worth very little. Historically ADA has fallen over 90%, over the span of a couple months. In a catastrophic scenario, SHEN holders would inevitably lose their value of collateral. The hope is that DJED would still maintain its peg, but if it does break out, all hell breaks loose and we have another Terra-Luna situation; DJED will simply be remembered as another failed algorithmic stablecoin project.

