---
title: "[Vestr] Solana Faces Another Network Outage"
date: "2023-02-27"
description: " "
---

<i>This article was originally published in Vestr.io's Newsletter. Subscribe <a href="https://www.vestr.io/" target="_blank">here</a></i>

<b>Just Another Day of Solana Outage</b>: Solana has suffered a series of technical difficulties (including outages, processing issues, and transaction freezes) since its launch in 2020 and this week was no different: After completing a network update from 1.13 to 1.14, problems began to arise that resulted in transactions being slowed on the network. For a certain period of time there was a freeze during which users could not process transactions or move assets. It prompted network validators to downgrade a software in an attempt to restore network performance, yet when this again failed, the only option left was to restart the network with version 1.13. The Solana Foundation stated that they’ve begun an investigation into the cause of the crash.

<b>Drawbacks of a Decentralized System</b>: With Solana being a completely decentralized system, every decision made regarding its update had to be decided in a decentralized manner, involving a series of votes casted by the validators. Infrastructure provider Chorus One noted on Twitter that “every decision on the way -- whether to downgrade, whether to restart, when to switch from downgrade approach to restart approach - is debated. Voting happens.” However, it also highlighted the downsides to the system, writing, “We end up taking 8-10 hours to recovery, instead of 1.” This is in fact a common criticism of any decentralized system, whether it’s a blockchain network, or a form of organization known as DAOs (Decentralized Autonomous Organization). Efficiency is reduced because one individual cannot make the decision for everyone and proceed with necessary actions. Instead, every validator that makes up the network is given the power to decide the future course of actions. In times of emergency, such as this one, the slow decision-making process could potentially spiral into a huge trouble.

<b>Effects on $SOL</b>: Thankfully, SOL did not suffer any price falls this time despite the weekend of transaction freezes. Instead, it was actually up more than 3% after the weekend. (24-hours trading volume fell by over 16%, however). Historically, the outages have often impacted the price of SOL: In June 2022, Solana’s price plunged 14% after suffering the fifth outage of that year. At that point in time it has already had more than 7 cases of full or partial outages since 2021. Unrelated to technical faultiness, SOL fell more than 57% last November after FTX’s liquidity crisis, which revealed that the exchange held much of SOL in circulation.

<b>Beta</b>: Solana Blockchain has once been dubbed “Ethereum Killer” for its incredible transaction speed with low gas fees. At this point in time, however, this can’t be further from the truth. Solana’s goal of processing more than 65,000 transactions per second (which is 30x Visa’s rate) seems too ambitious for their current technical capability. It’s now known for being one of the most congested networks that go down every once in a while. Just visiting Solana’s community forums one could easily find meme posts regarding Solana’s high frequency of outages. In an industry with frequent wild cards and random external factors, the one thing that must stay durable all throughout, is the technology itself. Solana’s recent failures shouldn’t be blamed on FTX only; it is instead a combination of bad technology, loss of trust by investors, as well as bad / unlucky market conditions that led them to where they are today.
